0: Walks around randomly and doesn't respond to injury.
1: Walks to and attacks enemies and friends indistinguishably. (same as pd insane ai)
2: Can distinguish between enemies and allies.
3: Avoids traps. (same as pd ai)
4: Can collect items.
5: Will use random potions that have been collected when low on health.
6: Will flee when low on health.
7: Will use random scrolls when not in immediate danger on unidentified items.
8: Will pick up equipment that is better than current and will equip. Will seek water if burning.
9: If not immediately necessary, will try to identify or cleanse unidentified equipment before equiping.
10: Takes weight of new equipment into account before equiping it and makes a judgement based on utility surplus / strength defecit if too heavy.
11: Avoids harmful plants. Will seek water if dissolving to caustic ooze.
12: Can identify worn equipment after using it enough.
13: Starts with 5 randomly allocated hexagon points.
14: Can use wands.
15: Potion of healing, scroll of identify and cleansing preidentified.
16: Starts with 8 randomly allocated hexagon points.
17: Scroll of rage and potion of mind vision preidentified.
18: Can use seeds to set traps. Will follow an ally in field of view who notices an enemy even if enemy itself is out of FOV.
19: Can cooperate with others to box in enemies.
20: Starts with 13 randomly allocated hexagon points.
21: Can make judgements about the attacker's next strike and flee if necessary.
22: Has a focus level which increases dexterity and accuracy but wanes during battle.
23: Can purchase items from shops.
24: Starts with 17 randomly allocated hexagon points.
25: Scroll of terror, teleportation, recharging, magic mapping, upgrade, potion of strength, levitation, invisibility and purification preidentified.
26: Focus level increases damage aswell.
27: Can upgrade and use artifacts.
28: Starts with 21 randomly allocated hexagon points.
29: Wands recharge faster and food consumed recharges wands. Can throw potions of healing and use healing items on allies.
30: Scroll of lullaby, mirror image, potion of toxic gas, liquid flame, experience, frost and might preidentified.
31: Focus level increases attack speed aswell and lasts longer. (wanes slower)
32: Starts with 24 randomly allocated hexagon points.
33: Knows which enemies drop what and hunts them accordingly.
34: Able to decide whether a group of attackers is handleable given current allies.
35: Travels in groups.
36: Is able to use other senses to detect enemies, i.e: through walls.
37: Uses chasms to advantage. Can sense dark magic in cursed eqiupment.
38: Able to control magic hexagon. Potion of paralytic gas and scroll of psionic blast preidentified.
39: Starts with 27 randomly allocated hexagon points.
40: Focus is unwaning.
41: Starts with 30 randomly allocated hexagon points.
42: Gains self-awareness, hacks the code to kill all enemies, then crashes the game with an 'IntelligenceFortyTwoException()'